docs: add testing guide for cypress (#2689)
withastro/docs: src/content/docs/en/guides/testing.mdx

import PackageManagerTabs from '~/components/tabs/PackageManagerTabs.astro'

> Testing helps you write and maintain working Astro code. Astro supports many popular tools for unit tests, component tests, and end-to-end tests including Jest, Mocha, Jasmine, [Cypress](#cypress) and [Playwright](#playwright). You can even install framework-specific testing libraries such as React Testing Library to test your UI framework components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Testing helps you write and maintain working Astro code. Astro supports many popular tools for unit tests, component tests, and end-to-end tests including Jest, Mocha, Jasmine, [Cypress](https://cypress.io) and [Playwright](https://playwright.dev). You can even install framework-specific testing libraries such as React Testing Library to test your UI framework components.
```
I think it's more our convention to link to the 3rd party services themselves when we first introduce them. What do we think about this?

See the [Astro + Vitest starter template](https://github.com/withastro/astro/tree/latest/examples/with-vitest) on GitHub.

## Cypress

Cypress is a front-end testing tool built for the modern web. Cypress enables you to write end-to-end tests for your Astro site.

### Installation

You can install Cypress using the package manager of your choice.

<PackageManagerTabs>
  <Fragment slot="npm">
  ```shell
  npm install -D cypress
  ```

  This will install Cypress locally as a dev dependency for your project.
  </Fragment>
  <Fragment slot="pnpm">
  ```shell
  pnpm add cypress --save-dev
  ```
  </Fragment>
  <Fragment slot="yarn">
  ```shell
  yarn add cypress --dev
  ```
  </Fragment>
</PackageManagerTabs>

### Configuration

In the root of your project, create a `cypress.config.js` file with the following content:

```js title="cypress.config.js"
import { defineConfig } from 'cypress'

export default defineConfig({
  e2e: {
    supportFile: false
  }
})
```

### Create your first Cypress test

> 1. Choose a page to test. We will use the example `index.astro` page below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Choose a page to test. This example will test the example page `index.astro` below.
```
We don't use "we" in our instructions as per our style guide. When necessary, "you" is OK. Otherwise, we rewrite to avoid addressing any particular person and try to keep things as neutral as possible.

(And yes, I know the example below uses "we".. .and that should also be corrected. So, can't fault you for following what you see in front of you on the same page! Baby improvement steps! Let's at least catch *this* one while we're here... 😅 )

    ```html title="src/pages/index.astro"
    ---
    ---
    <html lang="en">
      <head>
        <title>Astro is awesome!</title>
        <meta name="description" content="Pull content from anywhere and serve it fast with Astro's next-gen island architecture." />
      </head>
      <body>
      <h1>Hello world from Astro</h1>
      </body>
    </html>
    ```

> 2. Create an `index.spec.js` file in the `cypress/e2e` folder. Use the following test into the file to verify that the page title and header are correct.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Create an `index.spec.js` file in the `cypress/e2e` folder. Use the following test in the file to verify that the page title and header are correct.
```

    ```js title="cypress/e2e/index.cy.ts"
    it('titles are correct', () => {
      const page = cy.visit('http://localhost:3000');

      page.get('title').should('have.text', 'Astro is awesome!')
      page.get('h1').should('have.text', 'Hello world from Astro');
    });
    ```

    :::tip[set a baseUrl]
    You can set [`"baseUrl": "http://localhost:3000"`](https://docs.cypress.io/guides/end-to-end-testing/testing-your-app#Step-3-Configure-Cypress) in the `cypress.config.ts` configuration file to use `cy.visit("/")` instead of `page.goto("http://localhost:3000/")` for a more convenient URL.
    :::

### Running your Cypress tests

Cypress can be run from the command line or from the Cypress App. The App provides a visual interface for running and debugging your tests.

> First, start the dev server so Cypress can access your live site. To run our test from the previous example using the command line, execute the following command:
> 
> ```shell
> npx cypress run
> ```
> 
> To run the test using the Cypress App, execute the following command:
> 
> ```shell
> npx cypress open
> ```
> 
> Once the Cypress App is launched, choose **E2E Testing**, then select the browser to be used to run tests.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, start the dev server so Cypress can access your live site. 

To run our test from the previous example using the command line, execute the following command:

```shell
npx cypress run
```

Alternatively, to run the test using the Cypress App, execute the following command:

```shell
npx cypress open
```

Once the Cypress App is launched, choose **E2E Testing**, then select the browser to be used to run tests.

```
Let's separate the generic instructions (start the dev server) from the pair of options for running Cypress.

This *may* even be a candidate for our "Tabs" component, if you felt particularly adventurous! One set of instructions for CLI and one for the App. But, not necessary, and non-blocking!

Author: It's really tempting to make tabs, but currently this is the only place where cli/app separation exists. I believe we can back to restructuring and optimizing this page once we add all the usage examples for test frameworks mentioned at the beginning of the page.

> ### Next steps

Reviewer: Before next steps, it might be nice to briefly describe what kind of test results/feedback (and where) one should expect to receive.

I'll again put this as non-blocking, but the point of testing is to be able to respond to passing/failing tests! So, I think it would be important for this guide to let someone know what should happen if they've done this correctly, how to see their test results etc. In the example above, what happens when the test passes? Let's tell the reader so they know they did everything correctly!

See the [Astro + Vitest starter template](https://github.com/withastro/astro/tree/latest/examples/with-vitest) on GitHub.

## Cypress

Cypress is a next generation front end testing tool built for the modern web. Cypress enables you to write all types of tests:

* End-to-end tests
* Component tests
* Integration tests

> * Unit tests

Author: > I can't find either in their docs.

Well, it is written in the [Overview](https://docs.cypress.io/guides/overview/why-cypress#Who-uses-Cypress). Anyway, I don't mind being less specific, this information doesn't change the main purpose of the tool

Cypress can test anything that runs in a browser.

### Installation

You can install Cypress within your Astro project using the package manager of your choice.

<PackageManagerTabs>
  <Fragment slot="npm">
  ```shell
  npm install -D cypress
  ```

  This will install Cypress locally as a dev dependency for your project.
  </Fragment>
  <Fragment slot="pnpm">
  ```shell
  pnpm add cypress --save-dev
  ```
  </Fragment>
  <Fragment slot="yarn">
  ```shell
  yarn add cypress --dev
  ```
  </Fragment>
</PackageManagerTabs>

### Configuration

> In the root of your project, create a `cypress.config.ts` file with the following content:

Reviewer 2: I get `Unknown file extension ".ts"` with this config setup. It's worth changing to `.js` to avoid this potential error in a getting started guide

```suggestion
In the root of your project, create a `cypress.config.js` file with the following content:
```

Author: > I get `Unknown file extension ".ts"` with this config setup. It's worth changing to `.js` to avoid this potential error in a getting started guide

It's strange, because I've tested my setup multiple times without any issues.

<img width="356" alt="cypress" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/16765690/220197506-4898ef22-7c53-434a-95ed-8cde6b89f7c0.png">

So, in your case, changing the extension solved the error? I believe there should be an error related to using `import` in `.js` files and [according to the docs](https://docs.cypress.io/guides/references/configuration#Intelligent-Code-Completion), the config should be changed for js:

```js
const { defineConfig } = require('cypress')

module.exports = defineConfig({ ... })
```

Reviewer 2: Yep, I get this error: 
<img width="641" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4033662/220239060-2b58444a-468c-4fc6-bd84-fc2913323632.png">
And all I had to do was change to `.js`, no `require` necessary

```json
import { defineConfig } from 'cypress'

export default defineConfig({
  e2e: {
    supportFile: false
  },
})
```

### Create your first Cypress test

1. Choose a page to test. We will use the example `index.astro` page below.

    ```html title="src/pages/index.astro"
    ---
    ---
    <html lang="en">
      <head>
        <title>Astro is awesome!</title>
        <meta name="description" content="Pull content from anywhere and serve it fast with Astro's next-gen island architecture." />
      </head>
      <body>
      <h1>Hello world from Astro</h1>
      </body>
    </html>
    ```

> 2. Create an `index.spec.js` file in the `cypress/e2e` folder. Copy and paste the following test into the file to verify that the page title is correct. Update the value of the page `<title>` to match the page you are testing. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Create an `index.spec.js` file in the `cypress/e2e` folder. Use the following test to verify that the page title and header are correct.
```

    ```js title="cypress/e2e/index.cy.ts"
    it('titles are correct', () => {
      const page = cy.visit('http://localhost:3000');

      page.get('title').should('have.text', 'Astro is awesome!')
      page.get('h1').should('have.text', 'Hello world from Astro');
    });
    ```

    :::tip[set a baseUrl]
    You can set [`"baseUrl": "http://localhost:3000"`](https://docs.cypress.io/guides/end-to-end-testing/testing-your-app#Step-3-Configure-Cypress) in the `cypress.config.ts` configuration file to use `cy.visit("/")` instead of `page.goto("http://localhost:3000/")` for a more convenient URL.
    :::

### Running your Cypress tests

> You can run a single test or several tests at once, testing one or multiple browsers. By default, Cypress uses a built-in instance of [Electron](https://www.electronjs.org/) to run your tests, and it also [supports](https://docs.cypress.io/guides/guides/launching-browsers) Firefox and Chrome-family browsers (including Edge).

Reviewer 2: If we're not explaining _how_ to run several tests at once and how to test in multiple browsers, let's remove this paragraph

Cypress can be run from the command line or from the Cypress App. The App provides a visual interface for running and debugging your tests.

> To run our test from the previous example using the command line, execute the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, start the dev server so Cypress can access your live site. To run our test from the previous example using the command line, execute the following command:
```

```shell
npx cypress run
```

To run the test using the Cypress App, execute the following command:

```shell
npx cypress open
```

> Once the Cypress App is launched, choose **E2E Testing**, and the browser that will be used to run tests.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the Cypress App is launched, choose **E2E Testing**, then select the browser to be used to run tests.
```

    :::

### Running your Cypress tests

Cypress can be run from the command line or from the Cypress App. The App provides a visual interface for running and debugging your tests.

First, start the dev server so Cypress can access your live site.

To run our test from the previous example using the command line, execute the following command:

```shell
npx cypress run
```

Alternatively, to run the test using the Cypress App, execute the following command:

```shell
npx cypress open
```

Once the Cypress App is launched, choose **E2E Testing**, then select the browser to be used to run tests.

Once the test run is finished, you should see green check marks in the output confirming that your test passed:

```shell title="Output from npx cypress run"
Running:  index.cy.ts                                                                     (1 of 1)

✓ titles are correct (107ms)

1 passing (1s)
```

:::note[fail the test]
To check that your test really does work, you can change the following line in the `index.astro` file:

 ```astro title="src/pages/index.astro" del={2} ins={3}
  <body>
    <h1>Hello world from Astro</h1>
    <h1>Hello from Astro</h1>
  </body>
```

> Then run the test again. You should see a red mark in the output confirming that your test failed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then run the test again. You should see a red "X" in the output confirming that your test failed.
```
I'm not sure whether this is actually an X, but I think the very last thing here is to also be explicit about what kind of mark a failing test produces. It's helpful to describe the mark with more than just its colour, considering colourblindness etc.

Author: Yes, that's a good point, I haven't considered it yet.
